Update Q5 proof reading enzyme (#31)
SPAAM-community/little-book-of-smiley-plots: proofreading-polymerase.qmd

Sometimes the type of polymerase you use during library construction will influence the type of damage pattern you will receive.

In the example above, @Cai2022-rp found a funny smiley plot, where while the 3' G to A patterns look like a classic non-UDG (i.e. non-USER treated, thus retaining damage) plot, the frequency of C to T on the 5' end was extremely reduced.
This is because of the choice of polymerase used during library construction was not conductive to the nature of ancient DNA.

In this paper, the Q5® High-Fidelity DNA Polymerase was as the polymerase for the intial amplification after adapter ligation.
This polymerase has no tolerance for uracils.

During replication, when it encounters a uracil, it cannot proceed with extending the newly forming complement strand. 
As the original strand with the uracil stops early, it results in a single-stranded overhang without an adapter.
Thus the C-to-T deamination at the 5' termini of the reads will be absent in the plot.

> In contrast, the original complementary DNA strand (that does not have the uracil), which is filled-in by T4 DNA polymerase during the blunt-ending step of the double-stranded library preparation [@Briggs2007-ao], will still contain the complementary A nucleotide.

Author: ```suggestion
In contrast, the original complementary DNA strand (that contains the adenine opposite uracil), which is filled-in by T4 DNA polymerase during the blunt-ending step of the double-stranded library preparation [@Briggs2007-ao], will still be amplified by the Q5 polymerase.
```

> This means the G-to-A misincorporation pattern is retained in 3' termini of the reads, even if the deaminated cytosines were lost on the first strand.

Author: ```suggestion
This means the G-to-A misincorporation pattern is retained in 3' termini of the reads, even if the damage signal were lost on the first strand.
```
